---
layout: archive
title: "Appointments"
permalink: /appointments/
author_profile: true
---

- **Since Mar 2023. Temporary Assistant Professor in Computer Science**<br/>**(Ricercatore a tempo determinato tipo A in Informatica)**<br/>Department of Mathematics, University of Padova, Italy<br/>

- **Apr 2022 - Feb 2023. Postdoctoral researcher holding an italian Assegno di Ricerca**<br/>**Sintesi di controllori per systemi ciberfisici**<br/>**(Controller synthesis for cyber-physical systems)**<br/>Department of Mathematics, University of Padova, Italy<br/>Supervisor: Prof. Davide Bresolin<br/>My contribution involved the applycation of supervisory control techniques for the design, validation and synthesis of execution strategies for the enactment of business processes under uncertainty, in a maximally-permissive fashion. Particular attention was devoted to concurrency, to the modularity of the approach, and to new kinds of constraints in process instances that specify subsets of activies that can, must, or might repeat an arbitrary number of times. A further research line involved problem of optimal repair of Data Petri Nets, a state-of-the-art formalism to model data-aware business processes, where the executions of the processes are influenced by the current values valori of read and written data.

- **Apr 2021 - Mar 2022. Postdoctoral researcher holding an italian Assegno di Ricerca**<br/>**Sintesi automatica di controllori massimali per sistemi specificati da automi ibridi**<br/>**(Automated synthesis of maximal controllers for systems specified by hybrid automata)**<br/>Department of Computer Science, University of Verona, Italy<br/>Supervisor: Prof. Tiziano Villa<br/>My contribution involved (1) extending the constraints of the CSTNUD model in order to support arbitrary boolean formula on difference constraints and modeling the problem of dynamic controllability as a two player game with the instantaneous semantics reaction, (2) developing a software for the synthesis of a dynamic strategy and the execution of the temporal network according to it, (3) designing algorithms and software for mining temporal networks, (4) carrying out an interdisciplinary study and experimental evaluation on solving the Disjunctive Temporal Problem by comparing the frameworks of Satisfiability Modulo Theories (SMT), Mixed Integer Linear Programming (MILP), Circuit SAT (CSAT), e Constraint Programming (CP), (5) enhancing the material for the System Design Laboratory course.

- **Apr 2019 - Mar 2021. Postdoctoral researcher holding an italian Assegno di Ricerca**<br/>**Definizione e sviluppo di algoritmi e modelli per la progettazione industriale**<br/>**(Definition and development of algorithms and methods for industrial design)**<br/>Department of Computer Science, University of Verona, Italy<br/>Supervisor: Prof. Tiziano Villa<br/>My contribution involved planning problems under uncertainty by means of temporal network frameworks. Such networks allow to model a set of activities in a plan that must be executed by satisfying all delay and/or deadline constraints in a way that depends on the uncontrollable events that are being observed during execution. Some uncontrollable events are, for example, uncontrollable durations, uncontrollable conditions (e.g., emergency/not emergency), the avaliability of resources (e.g., absense of users), or uncontrollable resource committments for task executions. I faced computational complexity analyses and developed algorithms for the synthesis of execution strategies. I also worked on problems regarding the mining of temporal networks from execution traces.

- **Jan 2019 - Mar 2019. Research assistant**<br/>Department of Computer Science, University of Verona, Italy

- **Jan 2017 - Dec 2018. Last year of my Ph.D and early months of postdoc holding an italian Assegno di Ricerca**<br/>**Secure temporal planning: workflow satisfiability and resiliency under temporal uncertainty and conditional paths.**<br/>Department of Computer Science, University of Verona, Italy<br/>Supervisor: Prof. Luca Viganò<br/>My contribution involved (1) the formalization of extensions of temporal constraint networks (STNs, CSTNs, STNUs o CSTNUs) for security, (2) the development and implementation of constraint propagation algorithms for consistency/controllability problems, (3) management of other kinds of uncertainty in the controllability that go under the name of resiliency (=sudden absence of resources) during the execution of a workflow. Finally I developed a few prototypes implementing all these approces.

- **Jan 2014 - May 2018. Ph.D. student holding full italian scholarship**<br/>**Thesis: Temporal and Resource Controllability of Workflows Under Uncertainty**<br/>Department of Computer Science, University of Verona, Italy<br/>Supervisor: Prof. Luca Viganò<br/>In my Ph.D. thesis I addressed the design, validation, and synthesis of execution strategies for workflow/business processes under uncertainty. I gave particular emphasis to the temporal and resource aspects, considered both in isolation or simultaneously. I defined new temporal network models that address several kinds of uncertainty (temporal, conditional, etc) and I also developed several algorithms for synthesizing execution strategies with respect to the classic problems of weak, strong, and dynamic controllability. I applied such models in the context of workflow/business processes by providing a few encodings from a few fragments of the Business Process Modeling Notation (BPMN) into temporal networks.<br/>[Link to thesis](https://hdl.handle.net/11562/979769)